README.md, before:

# Laboratory work for University

## Principles of optimizing compilers

In this laboratory work we have to learn how to deal with optimizing compilers
and try them by ourselves.

We had some source code with parts that can be optimized by compilers,
and we compared assembly codes of optimized and none optimized binary files.

### Compilation

We used `gcc` co compile `OPTBENCH.c` with optimization flags and without them.

without any flags for optimization:

```console
gcc OPTBENCH.c -o non-optimized.exe
```

with optimization flags for speed:

```console
gcc -Ofast OPTBENCH.c -o optimized.exe
```

- `-Ofast` is equivalent to `-O3 -ffast-math` turning on higher optimization levels and more aggressive math optimization

with optimization flags for size:

```console
gcc -m64 -Oz -flto OPTBENCH.c -o size-optimized.exe
```

- `-Oz` turning on aggressive optimizations for size, similarly to `-Os` but aggressively
- `-flto` - intermodular optimizations
- `-m64` - 64 bits mode

### Disassembly

Disassembling was provided by `objdump` utility with this command line:

```console
objdump -d -Mintel <file>
```

where:
- `-d` - disassembly flag
- `-Mintel` - flag that sets intel architecture for asm syntax

### Comparison

>STATUS: processing results

Commit message:

Final commit, lab is done

README.md, after:

# Laboratory work for University

## Principles of optimizing compilers

In this laboratory work we have to learn how to deal with optimizing compilers
and try them by ourselves.

We had some source code with parts that can be optimized by compilers,
and we compared assembly codes of optimized and none optimized binary files.

### Compilation

We used `gcc` co compile `OPTBENCH.c` with optimization flags and without them.

without any flags for optimization:

```console
gcc OPTBENCH.c -o non-optimized.exe
```

with optimization flags for speed:

```console
gcc -Ofast OPTBENCH.c -o optimized.exe
```

- `-Ofast` is equivalent to `-O3 -ffast-math` turning on higher optimization levels and more aggressive math optimization

with optimization flags for size:

```console
gcc -m64 -Oz -flto OPTBENCH.c -o size-optimized.exe
```

- `-Oz` turning on aggressive optimizations for size, similarly to `-Os` but aggressively
- `-flto` - intermodular optimizations
- `-m64` - 64 bits mode

### Disassembly

Disassembling was provided by `objdump` utility with this command line:

```console
objdump -d -Mintel <file>
```

where:
- `-d` - disassembly flag
- `-Mintel` - flag that sets intel architecture for asm syntax

#### Lab is done, you can find reports just here in [docx](lab1plang_f.docx) and [pdf](lab1plang_f.pdf) formats

>STATUS: Accepted!
